# Drugs-in-Body-Project

Drugs are one of the most important subjects in any modern one’s life. This is especially true in the period of a global pandemic: after the outbreak of Covid-19, many countries, research institutes, and pharmaceutical companies have spent enormous effort on discovering, developing, and producing new vaccines and medications to help the global community to fight the pandemic. Just for the year 2021, 1467 Covid-19 related drugs are developed (Mikulic, March 2022) and used by more than 11,000,000,000 doses administered (Ritchie, March 2022), saving an uncountable number of lives.
 
Discovering and developing drugs is no easy job: not only should the researchers study the drug’s biochemical compositions to make sure it is effective and intoxic on the molecular/cell level (Reed, March 2022), but they have to also study the most effective way for drug administration: they need to find out when and how to administer the drugs so that its effects on the human body is the most desirable. The human body is a complicated system, for a drug to establish its desired therapeutic response, the concentration and duration of the drugs in the human body both play a vital part. For example, for some drugs to be effective, the concentration of the drugs in the blood has to exceed a certain level for a few hours; on the other hand, we need to carefully control the drug's concentration below a certain threshold and intervals because overdose on each drug may have adverse and irrecoverable effects on the human body (Reed, March 2022).
 
Predicting the effects of different drug administration is still an open question: there are many variables that jointly affect this process such as the drug itself, the delivery method, dosage, time intervals, human metabolic pathways, etc. There are many prior works that attempting to develop mathematical models to model this problem. Various numerical methods have been studied, including laplacian transformation and eigenvalue decomposition (Khanday, July 2016). Though the development of the mathematical model itself is purely theoretical, however, if verified with large amounts of experimental and clinical data, such a model can be very helpful in helping the researchers to design the most suitable drug administration methods empirically.
 
We are motivated by the great potential of modeling the effects of drug administration in developing new drugs. In this project, we aim to utilize our mathematical modeling knowledge to develop a few simple but effective models to study the effect of drug administration. In particular, we focus our research project on the effect of various delivery methods and metabolic pathways on a patient’s dosage over time.